Its about time someone took on the idea that landowners are the best placed people to look after the land. Guy Shrubsole's latest book the _Lie of the Land_ finally takes on, showing that despite saying landowners are the best placed to look after the countryside, many of them are destroying or damaging wildlife, either deliberately or by indifference and lack of interest. This is patently not the picture they want to push. Of course, they say they are stewards of the land, but what "looking after nature" means could be enitrely different depending on what you mean by "nature". Many grouse shooters consider (unironically) that "looking after nature" making large spaces of moorland basically uninhabitable for most species except heather, curlew and game birds that they can shoot, burning away precious carbon-storing peat and creating huge flood risks for other people. If you reduce "nature" to heather, curlew and game birds, and ignore the fact that the game birds will be brutally killed, then you could say that, but it would be patently ridiculous to do so.

There are some really good points in the book. The focus on community ownership of land, and the reasons Scotland took on this issue while the rest of the UK lags behind, is really interesting. Examining role of the state and public parks as alternatives is vital. Trespass as a way of accountablity, of ensuring that private landowners are not destroying vital ecosystems, is a hugely important point. And the need for an ecological Domesday Book, where conservationists across the country can map the biodiversity across the UK, filling in the huge unknown areas of private land, is point I was going to make in my thesis conclusion, and its helpful that I can cite Shrubsole on this now!

However, I don't really accept one key point, that if the huge wealthy landowners should "see the light" and care for nonhuman nature then all would be well. He lauds wealthy aristocrats like Sir Charles Burrell and ____. However, I don't think this is a solution. As he wrote in his previous book, 33% of the UK is still in the hands of the aristocracy. It hasn't solved this problem if suddenly all the aristocracy turn around and copy Knepp Estate.

Knepp Estate has done a lot of positive things for wildlife, I accept, but this should not be a model solution. They don't really care about public access, as evident when Isabella Tree complained about the number of visitors to the site during lockdown. Of course when only 8% of the country is acccessible people will flock to one or two areas, the solution is to open up access so that people can spread out and not excessively go to one particular area. Her comments seem to suggest she would restrict access if she could, and many other wealthy private estates copying the Knepp modal and doing just that.

They also have almost complete authority to make decisions on their land. As Shrubsole notes, this land has been stolen from the rest of the population. In addition, Sir Charles Burrell appears have his title thanks to ancestors theft of gold and silver from Brazil, although the sources are not entirely reliable on this. What is more clear that a more recent ancestor was a director of the South Seas Company, who made money from slavery (REF). The solution is to give back the common land that belongs to us all, not to simply encourage the thieves to do nice things with what they stole.

Thirdly, while Knepp Estate have a good understanding of their approach to ecology and conservation, the more it becomes fashionable and financially incentivised for the rich to look after nonhuman nature, the more wealthy individuals will have a go at rewilding for the wrong reasons and will have no idea what they are doing. As Shrubsole notes in the _Lie of the Land_, poor decisions by rich people led to the introduction of the grey squirrel, which has devastated red squirrels, rhodedendron, Japanese Knotweed, and more. He also mentions how many wealthy people are arrogant enough to try and hide what they are doing. How long do we have to wait before an entitled aristocrat fancies bringing in huge numbers of lions or tigers to an aristocratic rewilding estate and then finding they've escaped and caused chaos in the local community? Or perhaps, they don't introduce anything spectacular, but may be more interested in creating a wonderful "wild" park that they can sit and watch while having a glass of wine in the conservatory, but which doesn't really have any ecological benefits?

Its equally evident that the rewilding model requires upfront costs in terms of creating a (more) functional ecosystem, which may require a lot of work and potentially the reintroduction of some animals. Once this is done, the ecosystem should look after itself in theory. The way this works financially is a lot of upfront costs, only possible if you have capital such as a large estate or landholding, then a few years later, its likely you can watch the money roll in, through various financial schemes and subsidies, without much work. This is essentially an economy of rentism, where the landowners accrue huge wealth through their ownership of assets such as land. Thomas Piketty shows in _Capital_ we are already returning to an age of inheritance economy, one that is heading towards levels of inequality that initated World War I. Yet people in the rewilding movement are often blind to this - evident is Rewilding Britain's celebration of removing inheritance tax from rewilding sites. Given the profits to be made from land as an asset in the UK, from extremely problematic tree planting schemes, and from the likely future mix of income to be derived from nature-based markets, biodiversity offsetting, and government subsidies, I expect billionaires will be salivating over buying land in the UK as a way to make secure streams of income, where after the first few years, they just watch the money roll in. The fact that there is a secretive "Knepp Group" who are by their own admission, billionaires trying to define environmental policy in their own interests, should be the evidence needed to generate concern that environmental subsidies will increasingly go to the tiny minority of people who are lobbying on these issues.

I can understand why Shrubsole doesn't take these issues on. Even the basic idea of challenging the owners right to do what they want will be a major shock to the landowner classes. Making enemies of them as well as the aristocrats that are at least trying to do something for biodiversity would mean making a lot of enemies. As a political strategy, there's something to be said for trying make allies, for the time being, with the aristocrats that are not actively destroying the wildlife of the UK, but only while a movement gets stronger. Hopefully this movement will grow and when it does it needs to challenge all of the aristocracy and landed gentry. For them to continue to have complete decision making power over huge areas of the country is not acceptable, even if they look after biodiversity, we all need to have a say in how the countryside is managed, and be able to enjoy and find our own relationships with the many wonderful and exciting lifeforms in the country.
